Reconstruction Jobs
===================

In this example[^1], we illustrate how to split up the evaluations
needed for a functional reconstruction into several jobs.  These can
be run in parallel on several unrelated machines and computing nodes.
This approach is also useful for splitting evaluations into smaller
batches and save them to disk, such that one can avoid data loss in
case of crashes or system errors.

We suggest following this approach when performing particularly
challenging calculations, where a large number of evaluations is
needed and/or the evaluations themselves are very time-consuming.


Contents
--------

It contains the following files:

- [`define_graph.py`](define_graph.py) defines the computational
  graph.  This is used by the other files, but it is not supposed to
  be run directly.
- [`compute_degrees.py`](compute_degrees.py) computes and stores
  information on the total and partial degrees of the output of the
  graph, so that it can be used to generate sample points.  It should
  be run first.
- [`generate_points.py`](generate_points.py) generates a list of
  points for performing the reconstruction.
- [`evaluate_points.py`](evaluate_points.py) evaluates a subset of a
  list of points.
- [`reconstruct.py`](reconstruct.py) attempts the analytic functional
  reconstruction with the available evaluations.



Example
-------

Here is an explicit example of how one may proceed for the
reconstruction.  We recommend following the instructions below as well
as reading the comments inside the files to be run.

- First, we must compute the degrees of the output.  This is done in
`compute_degrees.py`, which can be run with
```
  python3 compute_degrees.py
```
  This will load the graph from `define_graph.py` and generate the file
  `degrees.fflow` with all the required information.

- Next, we want to generate a list of points to be evaluated.  In this
  example, we start by assuming only one prime field will be needed.
  This is usually the best option unless one already happens to know
  that one prime is not sufficient.  The list can be generated by
  running `generate_points.py`, from the command line with
```
  python3 generate_points.py nprimes 1
```
  or by setting `nprimes=1` at the beginning of the file. This will
  create a file `points_1.fflow` which stores the points to be
  evaluated in binary format.  Notice that this step does not load the
  graph to be evaluated, but only the information about the degrees
  generated in the previous step and saved in the file
  `degrees.fflow`. The script will also print how many points have
  been generated and written to the file.

- We now must evaluate the generated list of points.  We can read how
  many points we generated from Python using
```
  import fflow
  print(fflow.NSamplePointsInFile("points_1.fflow"))
```
  In this case, this tells us we generated 226 points.  We can now
  choose to evaluate any subset of them independently, even on
  different machines.  For this, the file `points_1.fflow` must be
  copied on the machines where we want to run the evaluations.  Let us
  split these into two batches of 113 points each.  These evaluations
  can be done by running `evaluate_points.py`.  We run it for the
  first batch, either from the command line with arguments
```
  python3 evaluate_points.py file points_1.fflow start 0 npoints 113
```
  or by setting `file=points_1.fflow`, `start=0` and `npoints=113` at
  the beginning of the file.  Similarly, for the second batch, we can
  run it from the command line with
```
  python3 evaluate_points.py file points_1.fflow start 113 npoints 113
```
  or by setting `file=points_1.fflow` `start=113` and `npoints=113` at
  the beginning of the file.  As already stated, these two runs are
  completely independent, and can be performed either sequentially or
  in parallel, and possibly on different nodes or on different
  machines.  These will generate the files
  `evaluations_0_113_points_1.fflow` and
  `evaluations_113_113_points_1.fflow` respectively, with all the
  performed evaluations.  Of course, one can split up the evaluations
  even more in order to take advantage of available computing
  resources.

- We now attempt to reconstruct analytically the output of the graphs
  from the evaluations performed so far.  All the files
  `evaluations_*.fflow` we have, as well as `degrees.fflow`, must be
  copied on the machine where the reconstruction is attempted.  This
  is done in the file `reconstruct.py`.  In this example, the
  reconstruction will fail at this stage, an return
  `fflow.MISSING_PRIMES`, indicating that additional primes are needed
  for the reconstruction.

- We need to add more evaluation points.  Since one prime was not
  enough, we will now assume two primes are needed.  The list of
  points can be generated similarly as before, with obvious
  changes, e.g. from the command line with
```
  python3 generate_points.py nprimes 2
```
  which generates the file `points_2.fflow`.  Notice that this script
  takes into account that some evaluations have already been performed,
  by loading them from the files `evaluations_*.fflow` already present
  in this directory.  Hence, only a complementary list of points, which
  have not been evaluated yet, is generated.

- We evaluate the new list of points similarly as before.  For
  instance, we can split the evaluations into two parts again, and
  perform them using
```
  python3 evaluate_points.py file points_2.fflow start 0 npoints 113
```
  and
```
  python3 evaluate_points.py file points_2.fflow start 113 npoints 113
```
  respectively, producing two more evaluation files.

- We run `reconstruct.py` once again, and this time we successfully
  reconstruct the analytic result.


Reset the example
-----------------

At any stage, you can clean the generated files and reset the example
using
```
rm *.fflow
```
in this directory.


[^1]: This example is a Python port of a [similar one](https://github.com/peraro/finiteflow-mathtools/blob/master/examples/reconstruction_jobs/README.md) that uses the Mathematica interface of FiniteFlow.
